hi today we're going to solve a puzzle
called the Triangle area puzzle what we
have is four different triangles where
the hypotenuse is three and the length
of one leg is one unit longer than the
other the question is what's the area of
a single triangle I'm going to give you
a moment to solve this you can pause the
video and take your time once you're
ready you can keep playing the answer to
this puzzle is that the area of a single
triangle is two the more interesting
part is how we can arrive at the answer
one way you can solve this is you can
work algebraically this is the long way
to solve the problem the steps involved
are you would label the two legs of the
triangle as a and B you can then set up
a system of equations one equation will
be that a is equal to B plus one because
we know one of the legs is one unit
longer than the other the other equation
is that a squared plus B squared equals
C squared the hypotenuse squared in this
case three squared by the Pythagorean
theorem we now have two equations for
two unknowns variables which means we
can solve for a and B and then the final
step would be to find the area of a
single triangle which is one-half a
times B this is a rather long and messy
way to solve this problem I'm actually
not going to go through the algebra if
you do you'll find out the answer is two
however I want to point out a much more
elegant way to solve this problem which
is geometric so what we're going to do
we start out with these same four
triangles and we can do a little neat
trick where we rearrange the triangles
as follows
we're gonna move one up this one to the
side and shift this one over
now we noticed something neat we
basically have a big square which has a
side three and we have the four
triangles and we have a small square
from this we can figure out the answer
we know that the area of the big square
is equal to the area of the four
triangles plus the area of the small
square we can solve the area the big
square three squared must be equal to 1
squared plus the area of the four
triangles that means the area of the
four triangles must equal eight and the
area of a single triangle is two I hope
you enjoyed this puzzle please subscribe
to the channel and you can also follow
me on mind your decisions on my blog I
post weekly puzzles on Monday there also
weekly game three posts on Tuesday and
that's my twitter at pressure Locker
thanks for watching